README.md, before:

# Lunch@Axis scraper
This is a [Rube Goldberg machine](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rube_Goldberg_machine) intended to give you an idea about what's for lunch around the Axis HQ in Lund, Sweden.

See if it works! [Lunch@Axis](https://lunch.axis.cloud/)

## Adding restaurants
If you think there's a restaurant missing, or you want to adopt this to your own liking, it's easy to expand on using the [Abstract Base Class](https://docs.python.org/3/library/abc.html) `AbstractRestaurant.py` and adding a new restaurant to `restaurants.csv`.

Currently, [Beautiful Soup](https://www.crummy.com/software/BeautifulSoup/) is used to scrape pages of restaurants but you can use whatever you want as long as a `dict` containing the days of the week is returned when method `get_week_menu` is invoked. Example:

```python
example_menu  = ExampleRestaurant().get_week_menu('https://www.restaurant.com/')
print(json.dumps(example_menu, indent=4))
```

yields...

```json
{
    "ExampleRestaurant": {
        "mon": "monday food",
        "tue": "tuesday food",
        "wed": "wednesday food",
        "thu": "thursday food",
        "fri": "friday food",
        "url": "https://www.restaurant.com"
    }
}

```

## Deploying with GitHub Actions
1. Clone the repo
2. Create your own repo on GitHub and push the cloned one to yours
3. Configure Github Secrets for the following paramaters:
* `BUCKET`: The name of the master branch S3 bucket. Must be a non-existing and unique name
* `BUCKET_DEV`: The name of the dev branch S3 bucket. Must be a non-existing and unique name
* `CLOUDFRONT_OAI`: The Cloudfront Access Origin ID
* `CLOUDFRONT_ID`: The Cloudfront Distribution ID
* `DDB_TABLE`: The name of the DynamoDB table used by Lambda functions in the master branch
* `DDB_TABLE_DEV`: The name of the DynamoDB table used by Lambda functions in the dev branch
* `DEFAULT_REGION`: The AWS region you want to deploy in
* `ROLENAME`: The name of the IAM role used by Lambda in the master branch
* `ROLENAME_DEV`: The name of the IAM role used by Lambda in the dev branch
* `SAM_S3_BUCKET`: The name of the S3 bucket SAM uses to store packages in
* `AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID`: Access key for the AWS account where you want to deploy. Must have admin privileges for first deployment or else SAM can't create IAM role needed.
* `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY_ID`: Secret Access key for the AWS account where you want to deploy. Must have admin privileges for first deployment or else SAM can't create IAM role needed.
* `STACK_NAME`: The name of the Cloudformation stack in the master branch
* `STACK_NAME_DEV`: The name of the cloudformation stack in the dev branch
3. When a **commit** is made to the **dev branch**, Github will automatically deploy the changes to the Cloudformation stack specified in the `STACK_NAME_DEV` parameter
4. When a branch is **merged** into the **master branch**, Github will automatically deploy the changes to the Cloudformation stack specified in the `STACK_NAME` parameter

## Deploying manually

### Requirements
* AWS SAM
* Docker desktop
* Python 3.8

### Instructions

1. Run command `sam build --use-container` (requires Docker)
2. Run command `sam deploy --guided` and save the config as a samconfig.toml file. You may need to modify the `samconfig.toml` to use `capabilities = "CAPABILITY_NAMED_IAM"`, or SAM might fail when creating new IAM roles
3. If no existing Cloudfront distribution is specified the S3 bucket should automatically be configured as a static website with a publically accessible URL

### Cloudformation parameters
The following parameters can be specified when deploying using `sam deploy --guided`
* `RoleName`: The IAM role used by Lambda functions
* `HTMLBucket`: The name of the S3 bucket which will host the static web content. Cannot be an existing S3 bucket and must be globally unique
* `DDBTableName`: The name of the DynamoDB table where menus will be stored
* `DDBTTLEnabled`: If specified to `true`, records will be deleted after a period of time from the DynamoDB table
* `CloudfrontDistribution`: Specifies if you should use an existing Cloudfront distribution or not. The template does not create a distribution itself, it must be an existing distribution.
* `CloudfrontOriginAccessId`: If `CloudfrontDistribution` is set to `true`, specify the 12 digit Cloudfront Access ID here to restrict the S3 bucket to only server content to the S3 bucket

## Architecture

* Step functions set on a cloudwatch schedule to run Mon-Fri 09:00 - 12:00
  * The scraper lambda function attempts to fetch menus from each restaurant specified in `restaurants.csv` and places the results in a DynamoDB table
  * The HTML generator Lambda function fetches latest results from DynamoDB and attempts to generate a HTML page, the result is put in an S3 bucket
* If Cloudfront is enabled, the S3 bucket has a bucket policy only allowing traffic to be served from Cloudfront

![Architecture overview](axis-lunch-diagram.png "Architecture overview")

Commit message:

disabling github actions, removed url

README.md, after:

# Lunch@Axis scraper
This is a [Rube Goldberg machine](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rube_Goldberg_machine) intended to give you an idea about what's for lunch around the Axis HQ in Lund, Sweden.

This used to be hosted under lunch.axis.cloud, but since I'm no longer with the company the scraper is currently not hosted anywhere and the Github Actions disabled.

## Adding restaurants
If you think there's a restaurant missing, or you want to adopt this to your own liking, it's easy to expand on using the [Abstract Base Class](https://docs.python.org/3/library/abc.html) `AbstractRestaurant.py` and adding a new restaurant to `restaurants.csv`.

Currently, [Beautiful Soup](https://www.crummy.com/software/BeautifulSoup/) is used to scrape pages of restaurants but you can use whatever you want as long as a `dict` containing the days of the week is returned when method `get_week_menu` is invoked. Example:

```python
example_menu  = ExampleRestaurant().get_week_menu('https://www.restaurant.com/')
print(json.dumps(example_menu, indent=4))
```

yields...

```json
{
    "ExampleRestaurant": {
        "mon": "monday food",
        "tue": "tuesday food",
        "wed": "wednesday food",
        "thu": "thursday food",
        "fri": "friday food",
        "url": "https://www.restaurant.com"
    }
}

```

## Deploying with GitHub Actions
1. Clone the repo
2. Create your own repo on GitHub and push the cloned one to yours
3. Configure Github Secrets for the following paramaters:
* `BUCKET`: The name of the master branch S3 bucket. Must be a non-existing and unique name
* `BUCKET_DEV`: The name of the dev branch S3 bucket. Must be a non-existing and unique name
* `CLOUDFRONT_OAI`: The Cloudfront Access Origin ID
* `CLOUDFRONT_ID`: The Cloudfront Distribution ID
* `DDB_TABLE`: The name of the DynamoDB table used by Lambda functions in the master branch
* `DDB_TABLE_DEV`: The name of the DynamoDB table used by Lambda functions in the dev branch
* `DEFAULT_REGION`: The AWS region you want to deploy in
* `ROLENAME`: The name of the IAM role used by Lambda in the master branch
* `ROLENAME_DEV`: The name of the IAM role used by Lambda in the dev branch
* `SAM_S3_BUCKET`: The name of the S3 bucket SAM uses to store packages in
* `AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID`: Access key for the AWS account where you want to deploy. Must have admin privileges for first deployment or else SAM can't create IAM role needed.
* `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY_ID`: Secret Access key for the AWS account where you want to deploy. Must have admin privileges for first deployment or else SAM can't create IAM role needed.
* `STACK_NAME`: The name of the Cloudformation stack in the master branch
* `STACK_NAME_DEV`: The name of the cloudformation stack in the dev branch
3. When a **commit** is made to the **dev branch**, Github will automatically deploy the changes to the Cloudformation stack specified in the `STACK_NAME_DEV` parameter
4. When a branch is **merged** into the **master branch**, Github will automatically deploy the changes to the Cloudformation stack specified in the `STACK_NAME` parameter

## Deploying manually

### Requirements
* AWS SAM
* Docker desktop
* Python 3.8

### Instructions

1. Run command `sam build --use-container` (requires Docker)
2. Run command `sam deploy --guided` and save the config as a samconfig.toml file. You may need to modify the `samconfig.toml` to use `capabilities = "CAPABILITY_NAMED_IAM"`, or SAM might fail when creating new IAM roles
3. If no existing Cloudfront distribution is specified the S3 bucket should automatically be configured as a static website with a publically accessible URL

### Cloudformation parameters
The following parameters can be specified when deploying using `sam deploy --guided`
* `RoleName`: The IAM role used by Lambda functions
* `HTMLBucket`: The name of the S3 bucket which will host the static web content. Cannot be an existing S3 bucket and must be globally unique
* `DDBTableName`: The name of the DynamoDB table where menus will be stored
* `DDBTTLEnabled`: If specified to `true`, records will be deleted after a period of time from the DynamoDB table
* `CloudfrontDistribution`: Specifies if you should use an existing Cloudfront distribution or not. The template does not create a distribution itself, it must be an existing distribution.
* `CloudfrontOriginAccessId`: If `CloudfrontDistribution` is set to `true`, specify the 12 digit Cloudfront Access ID here to restrict the S3 bucket to only server content to the S3 bucket

## Architecture

* Step functions set on a cloudwatch schedule to run Mon-Fri 09:00 - 12:00
  * The scraper lambda function attempts to fetch menus from each restaurant specified in `restaurants.csv` and places the results in a DynamoDB table
  * The HTML generator Lambda function fetches latest results from DynamoDB and attempts to generate a HTML page, the result is put in an S3 bucket
* If Cloudfront is enabled, the S3 bucket has a bucket policy only allowing traffic to be served from Cloudfront

![Architecture overview](axis-lunch-diagram.png "Architecture overview")
